Skeleton blog post for introducing docs SDG and Namir (#420)
MDAnalysis/MDAnalysis.github.io: _posts/2025-01-29-sdg23-writer.md

---
layout: post
title: Technical Writer for Streamlining MDAnalysis Docs and Resources
---
<img
src="{{site.images}}/numfocus.png"
title="NumFOCUS Foundation" alt="NumFOCUS Foundation"
style="float: right; width: 10em;" />

> Thanks to the support of a [Small Development Grant](https://numfocus.org/programs/small-development-grants) awarded to MDAnalysis by [NumFOCUS](https://numfocus.org/), MDAnalysis is excited to start working with Namir Oues (@namiroues) as the technical writer for the funded project, "Unified and comprehensive documentation and learning resources for MDAnalysis".

Reviewer: Add a sentence that summarizes the goal, e.g.,

..., with the goal to make it easier for new users to find the right resources to be productive with MDAnalysis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thanks to the support of a [Small Development Grant](https://numfocus.org/programs/small-development-grants) awarded to MDAnalysis by [NumFOCUS](https://numfocus.org/), MDAnalysis is excited to start working with Namir Oues (@namiroues) as the *Technical Writer* for the funded project, "Unified and comprehensive documentation and learning resources for MDAnalysis", with the goal to make it easier for new users to find the right resources to be productive with MDAnalysis.
```
Also capitalized and highlight the position title.

> MDAnalysis has an ever-expanding international community of users and developers. Thorough documentation and extensive learning resources -- such as tutorials and online workshop materials -- are publicly available to users under open source licenses; however, a considerable amount of overlap between the many resources (e.g., [website]({{ site.baseurl }}), [user guide]({{ site.docs.userguide }}), [docs]({{ site.docs.mdanalysis.url }}), [GitHub wiki]({{ site.github.wiki }})) can make it somewhat difficult for self-learners to find the information they need.

Reviewer: Insert after first sentence reference to mission:

```suggestion
MDAnalysis has an ever-expanding international community of users and developers. 
Part of [our mission]({{ site.baseurl }}about/#mission) is to "educate our users to make best use of the tools that we produce, to enable them to become contributors to our community and code bases" and therefore we make thorough documentation and extensive learning resources -- such as tutorials and online workshop materials -- publicly available to users under open source licenses.
However, a considerable amount of overlap between the many resources (e.g., [website]({{ site.baseurl }}), [user guide]({{ site.docs.userguide }}), [docs]({{ site.docs.mdanalysis.url }}), [GitHub wiki]({{ site.github.wiki }})) can make it somewhat difficult for self-learners to find the information they need.
```

> As Technical Writer, [Namir](#meet-namir-oues) is tasked with consolidating the main website and additional MDAnalysis learning resources to guide users through a more streamlined workflow by removing duplication and outdated materials and more clearly delineating between developer-focused and user-focused content. A  primary objective of this project is to enhance the user experience for newcomers to MDAnalysis and encourage continued growth in our user and developer communities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Namir](#meet-namir-oues) will consolidate the main website and additional MDAnalysis learning resources to guide users through a more streamlined workflow by removing duplication and outdated materials and more clearly delineating between developer-focused and user-focused content. A  primary objective of this project is to enhance the user experience for newcomers to MDAnalysis and encourage continued growth in our user and developer communities.
```

Please write a short (1-2 paragraphs) bio here. Feel free to include your affiliation(s) and any personal and/or professional interests. Please include any contact information you feel comfortable sharing publicly (e.g., GitHub/Discord handle, LinkedIn, website, blog, etc.)

### Follow Along with this Project

We encourage you to see how this work is progressing and to share your thoughts and feedback. There are many ways to get involved, including joining the [`developers`](https://discord.com/channels/807348386012987462/808088023957897258) and [`documentation`](https://discord.com/channels/807348386012987462/1021430544543785021) channels on our [Discord server]({{ site.discord.url }}) (join using [this invite link]({{ site.discord.invite }})), engaging with the GitHub issue trackers for the [main MDAnalysis repo]({{ site.github.repo }}) and [MDAnalysis User Guide repo](https://github.com/MDAnalysis/UserGuide), and interacting on the [{{ site.mailinglists.discussion.name}} forum]({{ site.mailinglists.discussion.url }}). Ultimately, the goal of this project is to meet the needs of our community, so please do chime in with your input!

> — @IAlibay @jennaswa @lilyminium @micaela-matta @orbeckst (Co-PIs/Project Personnel) @namiroues (Technical Writer)

Reviewer: Change the PI order, should be clear who's the PI (@jennaswa , right?) and roughly in which order people are taking on responsibility, i.e., @micaela-matta needs to come second; for the remainder (@IAlibay, @lilyminium , and I) I chose alphabetical order. I am not sure if there's any specific title attached to the named key personnel so I left that out. If anyone wants to put "co-PI" or "co-I" or whatever there please say something.

I'd suggest
```suggestion
- @namiroues (Technical Writer)
- @jennaswa (PI), @micaela-matta @IAlibay @lilyminium @orbeckst 
```
